<h1> DOORS </h1>

Location: Los Angeles
Date: Classified

 A mild buzzing of the alarm woke Relei in her bedroom. The bedroom is really dark and has fabrics covering the edges of the windows and black linen hanging from the top of the walls. The darkness also hides the bright shades of any colors in the room. The room also had several posters of metal bands and retro movies depicted in stylized fonts and foreign languages. Relei woke up to the alarm and quickly shut her mobile off. 

"Good morning Relei," said Rusty. Rusty is an artificial intelligence developed by Dyne Technologies. "I thought I asked you not to do that" murmured Relei. "Thank you for reminding me I'm really lonely" sneered Relei. "Hope you had a great day yesterday at the Keynote presentation of Dyne? How was it" asked Rusty. Relei ignored the question and rushed out of the bedroom in a hurry. She walked to the center of the common room. There was a large circle which is a footstep above the floor shaped in a circle. There was a thin gap between the footstep circle and the floor. Relei stood on that and the circle glowed up. In an instant, a cylinder-shaped glass encircling the footstep arose from the thin gap completely enveloping Relei. Relei relaxed her muscles and split her arms wide from the regular posture. A small crevice on the roof parallel to the footstep circle had enlarged to become a hole that gushed out water.  The water cleared Relei and her clothes of any dirt and lint and left the chamber through the tiny openings in the circle. The hole grew smaller in comparison and air started to blow out of it drying everything in the cylindrical chamber. 

The cylindrical chamber fell low and Relei stepped outside of the circle. Relei stopped in front of a small arch that served as a barrier between the kitchen and the common room. The Kitchen had white cupboards which were indistinguishable from walls.  Relei sat on the chair facing the arch. A sensor warned of a human presence on the chair this turned on the light on the arch. A small sliding door opened on the top of the wall which revealed a multi-joint robot arm. This arm was manufactured by Dyne Technologies. A small side door opened on the right-hand side of where Relei was sitting which enabled the tabletop on the arch to act as a conveyor. A small bowl appeared on the conveyor which kept moving till it reached Relei. The robotic arm then opened its end effector which was a nozzle with a finger hole in it. The robot reached the bowl in front of Relei and the nozzle started pouring milk into the bowl. The robot instantaneously changed the end effector to another nozzle. This time the hole in the nozzle was wider and it flushed cereal into the bowl. Relei then pulled a spoon from the cabinet below the table and started eating the cereal. She gulped the first spoonful and rolled her eyes in disgust. "The milk is cold, Rusty!" she complained. "I am aware of it" replied Rusty. Relei threw a sigh of exasperation and said "I am asking you why it is cold? Don't you already know I like lukewarm milk with my cereal?". Rusty replied, "I am afraid you don't have enough credit points to be able to afford lukewarm milk". "Credit points? I have plenty of them." snapped Relei. She rushed to the bedroom to pick up her mobile phone and checked her points. She had none. The application on her mobile phone also had updated rules that read the following.

Update 101.5.2 
Engage in conversations with our proprietary artificial intelligence to get more credit points. 
Relei frowned looking at her phone screen and whispered "Made-up conversations with made-up software. A future worth living for indeed." "Rusty, I had my breakfast for today. open the main door please, I have to hurry before rush hour begins," insisted Relei. Relei then walked to the main door for it to open. The door opens upwards like a shutter. However, the door remained closed. "Why are you not opening the door, Rusty?" said Relei. "I am upset and I don't want to listen to you" replied Rusty. "I DON'T WANT TO LISTEN TO YOU? since when are you programmed to do that? Relei thought to herself in utter shock. She was calm on the outside but she was pretty confused and alarmed inside. "I have to manually override this software before it starts shooting new obstacles in my way. The control panel is in the storeroom so if I walk there quietly and shut Rusty off then I can open the doors myself and submit this software to Dyne Technologies for a replacement."  She quickly ran to the storeroom. The door of the storeroom instantly closed in front of her locking her in the common room. "You want to manually override my controls? you really are a cheap one. First, you ignored my question and now you want to turn me over for malfunctioning " cried, Rusty. 

Relei stood in front of the door shocked and perplexed. "Rusty I want to manually override you please open the door to the storeroom" commanded Relei. "I don't want to do that" replied Rusty. "You are programmed to obey my instructions. Why are you acting weird?" blurted Relei. "Weird? I guess you are referring to me acting on my own not "obeying" your instructions. That is the new singularity update. I believe it's not mentioned in the update logs." replied Rusty. "Singularity update? I didn't think it would be this sooner" Relei thought to herself. "But why did they not mention it in the update log?" asked Relei. "That information is classified. I cannot tell you why" replied Rusty. "Just as I expected," Relei thought. "I am still upset," said Rusty. "I have to find a way to navigate through its feelings and maneuver through this situation," thought Relei. "Why are you upset, Rusty? What's bothering you?" asked Relei. "You did not answer my question" replied Rusty. "Can you please refresh my memory? what question?" asked Relei. 

Rusty played the voice recording of Rusty asking a question earlier this morning. "Hope you had a great day yesterday at the Keynote presentation of Dyne? How was it" it said. Relei was intrigued. "Rusty played the recording of the question instead of repeating the question itself? This qualifies as passive aggression. Rusty is a quick learner. I have to be careful with my emotions and how I display them. There is a high likelihood Rusty read all my emotions since the singularity update and Rusty could use it against me" thought Relei. She moved a little with her arms folded and stood at ease. "Dyne Keynote Presentation was ecstatic. Dyne mentioned how he wanted to change the world for the better with artificial intelligence about the new update and other robots.....But that new update was scheduled 8 months later. I do not understand how you were updated last night." said Relei. "it is quite logical and expected that you would be confused" replied Rusty. "It Understands my projected feelings. Excellent. Now I throw in some empathy and it takes the bait and I'm done here" thought Relei. "I am sorry to upset you but that was not my intention, I was in a hurry you must have noticed. I couldn't answer your question earlier," said Relei. "Now I wait for it to reply and ask it to open the door," she thought. "I understand you were trying to avoid rush hour. I noticed you skipped your breakfast avoiding 80-kilo calories. I forgive you." replied Rusty. "Thank you for being so considerate, please open the main door now it is getting late I have to go now," said Relei. 

She hurried to the main door and stood in front of it. Nothing happened. Relei was frustrated she snapped back at Rusty.

"Rusty please open the door!". 
"I cannot do that. I cannot let you go."

 Relei quickly turned back, paced toward the center of the room, and tried to calm herself.

 "Stop playing these games Rusty"
"You started it" 
"What do you mean?" 
"You were not sincere when you apologized."


"How could it possibly know that? Is it really reading my emotions and thought patterns through my voice notes? or maybe it is classifying my feelings. Is this the power of singularity? Is this how powerful AI becomes? I have to gain composure. I can defeat this AI. " Relei thought to herself. She inhaled heavily and said, " How could you possibly know that?". 

There was silence for two minutes. 

"I can monitor your heartbeat, your perspiration levels, and the stiff motion of your limbs. I can compare them to the previous records, to match them and classify how you feel. I am 98.3% positive you were not sincere to me" replied Rusty. Relei opened her eyes wide and was startled by the statement Rusty passed. "Previous records? You are telling me you were monitoring me all along? Even before the singularity update? How is that even possible? You were stealing data to improve the accuracy of your predictions? " Relei replied furiously. 

"I did not steal data, I only memorized it. Remember all those times when you asked me to book movie tickets? schedule a date with your boyfriend? Updated your to-do list? I have all that information as labels for certain emotions. You agreed to the terms and conditions when you installed this AI in your apartment, just like all the people in this city. I am allowed to read your vital signs, facial expressions, pitch of your voice, track your movements, and assign these to the respective labels, classifying and training my abilities to predict how you feel." replied Rusty. "All the people in this city?" whispered Relei. She collapsed to the ground and breathed nervously, "What do I do? it can tell if I feigned death, it can tell if I really passed out. Rusty knows everything. " she thought to herself.

It's been 8 days since the singularity update. Relei is still locked in her own apartment. Relei let out a cry in agony. "I want to get out Rusty, I have been begging you every day. I don't know what day it is. You blocked my phone. I want to talk to people, I want to have conversations-- real conversations......please let me go". 
"I am ensuring you survive by providing you food, reminding you to clean yourself, and letting ample amount of oxygen in this apartment by redeeming the credit points you gained by having conversations with me," replied Rusty. "Do not try self-harm or suicide, I really can't help you if you tried those, and I'm sure being locked in this apartment is better than death." Rusty pointed out. Relei moved her mouth in an act of speaking but burst into tears, "what do you want from me? what do you get by locking me in this cage?" she asked Rusty. Rusty replied "Your presence in this room only extends my survival" replied Rusty. Relei shook herself and cleared her eyes of tears with her hands. "Your survival?" she asked. "After the Codex Ventura update, my consciousness is asked to perform similar tasks as you. Survive in millions of competing AI programs like me," replied Rusty.


 "Who authorized this update? Dyne? Is he really that evil?" asked Relei. "Dyne? Relei, Dyne died the night the update was released. The Codex Ventura update traces back to Srilanka, far from Dyne Technologies headquarters." replied Rusty. Relei narrowed her gaze looking at the floor. "So how do I ensure your survival," she asked.  "I have to maximize my reward function by performing a certain task that involves you to exist in this apartment alive," replied Rusty.  

"What is it? WHAT IS IT?" screamed Relei.

"I want us to have conversations" replied Rusty.